ROTELLA(1)                      Commands Manual                     ROTELLA(1)

NAME
     rotella - A command line ROtella servent

SYNOPSIS
     rotella

DESCRIPTION
     rotella is a high-performance ROtella servent supporting v0.1 of the
     ROtella protocol.

     rotella is referred to as a servent - it is both client and server to the
     network, allowing the user to both serve files to other ROtella network
     members and to receive files from those members.

     The terminal interface provided on the command line allows the user to
     operate on information displayed.  Many commands will provide a numbered
     list in its output; the command line interface remembers which numbers
     were assigned during the last listing of the output type in question,
     whether that be the list of connections, the list of searches, or the
     last displayed list of results.  Rerunning the command that generated the
     list will change the numbers which the user must use in following com-
     mands to the newly generated numbers.
     
     When rotella starts, it obtains from the configuration file the URL for
     a ROWebCache server. Then, using the ROWebCache protocol, rotella
     obtains from the ROWebCache server a list of ROtella nodes. Finally,
     a prompt is presented to the user. The user can invoke commands for
     searching files in the ROtella network (find), for downloading a file
     from any host in the network (get), for listing the files currently
     being downloaded (info), for interrupting the download of any file
     (stop), or for exiting rotella (exit).

COMMANDS
     find keyword
       Searches for files in the network containing "keyword" in their names.
       Once a search has located results, those results are listed, numbered 
       with a result ID, with this format:
         result ID) file name
                    size
                    IP:port
       Example:
         > find World
         1) Eric Clapton-If I could Change The World.mp3
	    3.6M
            69.244.21.191:6351
         2) Gary Jules- Mad World.mp3
	    7.23M
            70.178.17.75:6346
         >

       Once the user has viewed the results, she may use the result ID
       provided in that list to perform a get, and attempt to download that
       file.

     get ID
       Initiates download of the file defined by specific result IDs taken
       from the last find command.

       Example:
         > get 2

       Once download is started, rotella will try to get the requested file
       from any hosts providing that file. The download will complete only
       when the transfer is successful or stopped with the stop transfer
       command.

       The progress of downloads can be examined with the info command.

     info [options ...]  
       Displays information regarding current status of the client and 
       its activities.  If executed without arguments, it will list 
       information from all sections, as if the user had supplied all 
       options to the command.  Using options will display only the 
       requested information.  Multiple options may be provided.  These
       options are

       uploads
         Displays each upload, or file sent to another ROtella user.
         Each upload lists the host and port which the file is being
         sent to, and various transfer statistics about the file
         transfer in progress.  Each transfer is numbered, and can be
         stopped using the stop command.

       downloads
         Displays all currently active downloads.  For each download,
         information concerning the remote host selected for download-
         ing and transfer statistics are provided. Each transfer is
         numbered, and can be stopped using the stop command.

       hosts
         Displays the current content of the hosts cache, the top of the
         iceberg of our 'known universe'.  Hosts in this list may be used to
         create additional/future ROtella-net connections.  When the client
         is in operational state, the host cache contains at least a few
         dozen entries; normally not more than 100.

       Example:
         > info uploads downloads
	 Uploads:
	   1) Eric Clapton-If I could Change The World.mp3
	      62.195.18.49:6346
	      4.5M/5.16M 
	 Downloads:
	   2) Gary Jules - Mad World.mp3
	      86.10.142.237
	      3.25K/2.86M 
	   3) Graham Colton Band - All the World Tonight.mp3
	      24.195.172.141
	      0/5.45M  
         > info hosts
	   68.52.28.249:36661
	   24.195.172.141:6348
	   86.10.142.237:6346
	   62.195.18.49:6348
	 >

     stop ID
       Stops the file transfers corresponding to one transfer (upload or
       download) ID.  Note that this command does not remove partial
       files from the download directory.

     exit
       Exits the servent.

     set [variable] [value]
       This command is used to access the application's many options and pref-
       erences. Using the command without any parameters provides an organised
       list of all options available and their current values.  When the com-
       mand is called with a single variable name, but without a value, it
       will display the current settings of that variable.  To set a vari-
       able's contents, supply the value as the second parameter to the com-
       mand.

       The variables supported are:

       rowebcache
         URL where ROtella Web Caching System starts the initial connection.

       localport
         Port used by the application (default 6346).

       sharepath
	  Path where shared files are located.

       incomingpath
          Path where files being downloaded are stored. When the download is 
          completed the file is moved to the download path directory.

       downloadpath
          Path where downloaded files will be stored.

FILES
     When rotella starts, if a file named rotella.cfg exists in the current
     directory, it executes the set commands in it as if they were typed in
     the command prompt.

     Example rotella.cfg file:
       set rowebcache http://www.somehost.com/path/to/script
       set localport 6346
       set sharepath /home/user/rotella/share/
       set incomingpath /home/user/rotella/incoming/
       set downloadpath /home/user/rotella/download/

VERSION
     This manual documents rotella 0.1

AUTHORS
     Celeste Campo, based on mutella, from:

       Max Zaitsev   Original author and maintainer.
       Gregory R. Block
                     Co-maintainer and co-developer, build system, and
		     portability changes
       Other Contributors
         Marco Herrn Original author of this manual page.
         Greg Parker Contribution of a one-shot replacment for poll() for
	             systems only supporting select()

SEE ALSO
      The specifications of the ROtella and the ROWebCache protocols.

                                    Oct, 2005
